Opposition’s Briceño is the new Belize prime minister				




Voter turnout is at 81 percent



The Belizeans have elected the leader of a major opposition party as its new Prime Minister.



John Briceño of the People’s United Party (PUP) defeated ruling party candidate Patrick Faber, who is the current chairman of the United Democratic Party (UDP) and is also Belize’s Minister of Education, Youth Sports and Culture since 2012. 



Briceño will replace UDP’s Dean Barrow, the outgoing prime minister who ran Belize for 12 years—since 2008.



In his message to the Belizeans on Wednesday night, Briceño considered this year’s election as a “clarion call” for the country to “grow up.”



“It is with heartfelt gratitude that I address our nation tonight, fully aware that this 2020 election is a clarion call for our young nation to grow up,” the prime minister-elect  said. “The people have spoken. Long live democracy.”



A former deputy prime minister, PUP’s winning bet has pledged to crack down on corruption, revive agriculture and tourism, and fast track a stimulus package through parliament.



The elections and boundaries department said turnout reached 81%. The election was held in the aftermath of Tropical Storm Eta, which hit the region last week.



Faber on Wednesday night conceded defeat as vote counters tallied ballots.



“I sent a note to the honorable John Briceño in which I expressed my heartfelt congratulations on the election victory for him and the People’s United Party,” Faber said on Wednesday night. “The challenges that he and his government will face will not be easy and he will need all the support he can garner to see our great nation through the long road to recovery.”



Faber has also called for national unity among all Belizeans, UDP, PUP and third party and independent candidates to take on our national challenges, such as the pandemic, storm damage, and the worst economic slump in Central America.



There are 31 seats in the House of Representatives that are up for grabs in the ninth parliamentary elections since its independence in 1981.



The UDP has ruled in Belize since 2008. Despite a major loss, the party was able to maintain thrее оf іtѕ Веlіzе Сіtу ѕtrоnghоldѕ: Соllеt, Меѕороtаmіа, аnd Quееn Ѕquаrе.