Caribbean “may take years to recover” from pandemic— expert				




Pandemic is crippling tourism industry



Many of the islands in the Caribbean have begun restarting their tourism sector, encouraging international vacationers to come out of their months-long quarantine and plan their out-of-the-country travel.



However, a number of governments around the world are still cautious about having their citizens travel amid the pandemic. Japan, for instance, warned its people in a recent coronavirus advisory about traveling overseas, which includes to a number of Caribbean nations.



The cruise lines, which have been a major contributor to the region’s tourism, are still struggling to set sail. A recent report said that the trips of the four of Royal Caribbean International’s ships are cancelled due to “shipyard closures and related issues.”



“The sharp drop in tourism stemming from the pandemic will undoubtedly plunge most Caribbean countries into severe recessions, with few resources at their disposal to cushion their populations from the fallout,” wrote Robert Looney in his recent World Politics Review opinion piece.



Looney is a distinguished professor at the Naval Postgraduate School in Monterey, California and specializes in issues relating to energy security and economic development in the Middle East, Africa, South Asia and Latin America.



The professor further said that the perennial challenge with natural disasters have left the Caribbean extremely ill-prepared to address the economic effects of COVID-19. The islands have already been indebted from the damage incurred from the category 5 hurricanes that visited the region in recent years.



“A primary challenge for many Caribbean countries has been to balance lockdowns and other public health measures with attempts to maintain some level of economic activity,” Looney explained.



The best strategy for Caribbean countries is to be more vigilant in curbing the virus “before attempting to return to anything resembling normalcy.” Further, the region’s economic recovery will also depend on a combination of “debt relief and concessional funding.”



Expert’s suggestions



Looney believes that in order for the Caribbean to weather its worst crisis since 9/11, three regional bodies must seek the help of international organizations and governments.



“The Caribbean Community, the Caribbean Tourism Organization and the Caribbean Hotel and Travel Association must work in conjunction with the World Trade Organization and national governments to restore trust by implementing policies and practices that assure tourists of their safety,” he said. “This means implementing more rigorous safety and hygiene standards, which will ultimately raise the cost of providing services.”



On this matter, the World Health Organisation has released its guidelines on mass gatherings amid the pandemic. Looney  also suggested that businesses should develop new models to cater to their target markets.