The Bahamas restarts tourism with readiness plan				




The restart will be divided into two phases



As it gears up on awakening its tourism industry, The Bahamas laid out its readiness and recovery plan to safeguard every citizen from the novel coronavirus.



The Caribbean island is slated to open on the 1st of July, along with neighboring Dominican Republic. Both have been heavily crippled by the pandemic as the tourism and hospitality sectors were forced to shut down to prevent the spread of the disease.



Earlier this month, Antigua and Barbuda, the US Virgin Islands and St. Lucia went ahead with the reopening. Jamaica and Aruba are set to follow later in the month.



The Bahamas Ministry of Tourism & Aviation debuted the “Tourism Readiness and Recovery Plan,” a set of guidelines to safely bring back international commercial travel.



On June 15, the Phase 1 of the plan will be carried out. It will allow private aviation, boaters and yachters to return to the islands. Meanwhile, commercial airlines will be allowed to fly in Bahamian citizens, legal residents, homeowners or the immediate family members or significant others..



There will be a meticulous process upon arrival to the country. The Bahamas will require every incoming individual to register at an embassy and obtain a COVID-19 test with a negative result. 



Come July 1, when the Phase 2 will roll out. The Bahamas will extended its flights to both international and domestic commercial airlines. The island will allow the opening of hotels and vacation rentals, as well as the resume of operations of taxis and buses.



“Our top priority has and will always be our commitment to the health and well-being of our residents and visitors,” said Bahamas Ministry of Tourism & Aviation Director-General Joy Jibrilu in a statement. “We must remember that we are living in a new normal in the wake of COVID-19 and a lot is going to change across the tourism sector.”



“We are putting an even greater emphasis on making sure The Bahamas is safe and clean for everyone and look forward to once again providing travelers with the tropical experience our islands are known for,” Jibrilu added.



“Healthy Traveler Campaign”



Vacationers in The Bahamas will be required to follow its “Healthy Traveler Campaign,” which emphasizes on social distancing measures, cleaning and sanitation methods, and the use of face masks public places. The temperature of the incoming tourists will also be monitored in all airports and seaports of the country.



Should there be a spike in the number of daily cases, the government will be forced to adjust the island’s reopening accordingly.



Hotels will now observe enhanced cleaning protocols and schedules, which includes provisions of hand sanitizer stations, and a limit set on the number of people on elevators. The staff will undergo regular health monitoring as well. Other tourist attractions are required to limit guests, and encourage a touch-less shopping experience.



As of today, The Bahamas has recorded 102 cases and 11 deaths according to the World Health Organisation.