Sint Maarten airport to re-open on July 1st				




Minister of Tourism, Economic Affairs, Transport and Telecommunication (TEATT) announced that Sint Maarten is ready to receive travellers from Europe and North America by July 1st, which coincides with their celebration of Emancipation Day. 



TEATT Minister Ludmila N.L. de Weever urged the public to continue adhering to the proper social distancing and health and safety protocols, as well as the established guidelines for businesses in order to maintain a COVID-19 free Sint Maarten.



“Travel Entry Requirements” has also been released to all stakeholders. It outlines the safety and health protocols, testing requirements and health screening procedures, among others for visitors arriving at the Princess Juliana International Airport. The advisory is subject to change upon the government’s discretion.















Sint Maarten is open to passengers from Saba, Sint Eustatius, Bonaire, Curacao, Aruba, Anguilla, St. Barthelemy, Martinique, and Guadeloupe. For these countries, passengers should ensure that they have been consecutively present there for 21 days prior to the date of departure. No quarantine will be required upon arrival to Sint Maarten.



Starting from June 22nd, Sint Maarten will also be open to St. Lucia, Antigua and Barbuda, St. Kitts and Nevis, Dominica and the British Virgin Islands. The 21-day minimum stay requirement will also be applied to passengers from these islands so that no quarantine will be required.



“The Ministry understands the urgent need for increased economic activity on the island but we intend to re-open in a safe and responsible manner for our residents and visitors,” said Minister de Weever.



She likewise assured the public that the Ministry is committed to keeping the public informed of the developments surrounding the re-opening of Sint Maarten’s borders and she continues to meet with the relevant stakeholders in the interim.







In other news:



The OECS thanked the Republic of Cuba for the medical support to curb COVID-19