No more curfew in Barbados				




In a telecast address to the nation, Prime Minister Mia Amor Mottley announced that there will be no more curfew in Barbados.



“Effective Wednesday, July 1st, there will be no further curfew on weekends in Barbados. All curfew restrictions therefore are now being removed.”



The Prime Minister also said that the physical distancing protocol would now be one metre or about the stretch of your hand.







Additional Ease of Restrictions and Protocols



Meanwhile, Attorney General and Minister of Legal Affairs Dale Marshall discussed the following amendments that would be in effect from Monday, June 29:



All daycare centres will be allowed to re-open to full functionality.Spectator sports will resume with physical distancing and sanitizing protocols.All public and entertainment events can now have a maximum of 500 persons, who will have to adhere to physical distancing protocols and wearing of masks.The limit of time on church services has been removed, however, the other protocols will remain in place.Baptisms can resume with the wearing of gloves by clergy.The status quo will remain until further notice for visitation to district hospitals and senior citizens’ homes, that is one person at a time.



The Attorney General explained that it would be possible to host events in excess of 500 people from Wednesday, July 15 once the COVID-19 Monitoring Unit certifies the arrangements that are put in place by event organisers.



In relation to the extension of the state of emergency until August 30th, Marshall explained the rationale for the extension.



“It allows us to maintain our restrictions in relation to the physical protocols, in relation to the sanitizing. It is the basis on which the COVID-19 Monitoring Unit will work; they will work within the context of a state of emergency caused by the pandemic.”



The Attorney General added that even though there has been no local transmission of COVID-19 for 35 days,  it is still important to ensure that protocols of physical distancing and other precautionary measures are still in place.







COVID-19 Monitoring Unit established



Prime Minister Mottley also announces that a COVID-19 Monitoring Unit will be established. The body will implement, monitor and assess public health and social measures with reference to the pandemic.



“We understand that there are those who will have concerns, but at no time will human life become secondary to our economy….  We are not…those people; we don’t do it that way…. Any plan to welcome visitors to our shores again and to allow tourism-based establishments to reopen, must and will put the safety of Barbadians first. I said it too many times, it is non-negotiable.” said Mottley



The primary objectives of the unit include:



Establishing, reviewing and assessing protocols with respect to the prevention and control strategy for COVID-19.Ensuring community awareness of public health preventive measures, including physical distancing, frequent hand washing and respiratory etiquette.Identifying community and local networks and engage communities, businesses and religious leaders.Conducting risk assessment by workstation or function according to the environment, expected tasks, the possibility of exposure and available resources.



In addition, the unit will also monitor and analyse trends; estimate gaps; propose and enforce corrective actions where needed; and disseminate infection, prevention and control guidance for home and community care providers.



Comprising of officers from the Ministry of Health and Wellness and Ministry of Labour, the 10-member unit would be led by Deputy Chief Environmental Health Officer, Ronald Chapman.