Haitian nationals arrested for illegal entry in Dominica				




A series of police operation has led to the arrest of close to fifty Haitian Nationals for illegal entry in the Commonwealth of Dominica.



Thirty-one of those arrested appeared before the court and were charged for overstaying according to the Chief of Police, Daniel Carbon.



Carbon emphasised that while the Haitians are welcome into Dominica, they must follow and adhere to the laws of the land



“Some of them are using Dominica as a transhipment point to travel to other countries through illegal means. I have warned against entering and leaving Dominica through illegal means. I informed the Haitian community that they were welcomed to visit and remain in Dominica, however, they must follow the laws of Dominica.”







Legal entry to Dominica







Carbon urged citizens of Dominica to legally come to the country through the designated port of entry since the borders are now open.



“I am taking this opportunity to once again appeal to those who are bent on entering and leaving Dominica through unauthorized ports of entry/exit to desist from doing so.”



The police is also looking into rewarding those who will assist them to prevent and or catch people leaving and entering Dominica illegally.



Carbon added that the strict enforcement of the law is needed in order to keep the country COVID-19.







PM Skerrit to meet with Haitian community







Dominican Prime Minister Roosevelt Skerrit said he intends to meet with members of the Haitian community



“I intend to meet sometime this week with some of the respectable Haitian nationals in the country to speak to them and to solicit their continued support in containing and eliminating this practice so that we do not have the unfortunate circumstance in this country.”



Skerrit is concerned with the rampant illegal entry of Haitians in the island especially with the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic.



“It is not intended to target any groups or individuals, the main objective is to stop the illegal practice in order to prevent COVID-19 from coming into the country through illegal means.” 



The prime minister added that the government will coordinate with French authorities for more assistance in patrolling the waters between the islands.