Rowley sworn into second term as Prime Minister				




Keith Rowley sworn into office for his second consecutive term as Prime Minister, leading the 22-member Cabinet of Trinidad and Tobago.



Rowley, who led the ruling People’s National Movement (PNM) to victory in the August 10 general elections over the main opposition United National Congress (UNC), unveiled a cabinet consisting of young and experienced politicians.



In his speech, he asked the new Cabinet members that it is best count their term in office in months, rather than years, to avoid “falling asleep”.



“Rest assured that nobody in this government will be allowed to fall asleep because performance will be reviewed on an ongoing basis (and) as Prime Minister I assume full responsibility and I want to thank the national community for giving me another opportunity to continue in public service.”



The swearing-in ceremony was given a green light after the United National Congress (UNC) has conceded defeat. Official results show that PNM won 22 out of the 41 electoral seats while the UNC won 19 seats.



“After some days of reflection and monitoring of the progress of the election recount process, I am satisfied that the people have spoken and that Dr. Rowley and his party shall form the new government of Trinidad and Tobago,” UNC political leader Kamla Persad-Bissessar said in a video address.







The new Cabinet Ministers led by Rowley:



Faris Al-Rawi – Attorney General



Clarence Rambharat – Minister of Agriculture, Land and Fisheries



Dr. Nyan Gadsby-Dolly – Minister of Education



Franklin Khan – Minister of Energy and Energy Industries



Colm Imbert –  Minister of Finance



Dr. Amery Browne – Minister of Foreign and CARICOM Affairs



Terrence Deyalsingh – Minister of Health



Penelope Beckles – Minister of Housing and Urban Development



Steve Mc Clashie – Minister of Labour



Kazim Imtiaz Hosein – Minister of Local Government and Rural Development



Stuart Richard Young – Minister of National Security



Camille Robinson-Regis – Minister of Planning and Development



Ms. Allyson West – Minister of Public Administration and Digital Transformation



Marvin  Gonzales – Minister of Public Utilities



Donna Cox – Minister of Social Development and Family Services



Shamfa Cudjoe – Minister of Sport and Community Development



Randall Mitchell – Minister of Tourism, Culture and the Arts



Paula Gopee-Scoon – Minister of Trade and Industry and Enterprise Development



Rohan Sinanan  – Minister of Works and Transport



Fitzgerald Ethelbert Hinds – Minister of Youth Development and National Service



Avinash Singh – Minister in the Ministry of Agriculture, Land and Fisheries



Lisa Morris-Julian – Minister in the Ministry of Education



Brian Manning – Minister in the Ministry of Finance



Adrian Leonce – Minister in the Ministry of Housing and Urban Development



Renuka Sagramsingh-Sooklal – Minister in the Office of the Attorney General and Legal Affairs



Ayanna Webster-Roy – Minister in the Office of the Prime Minister



Stuart Richard Young – Minister in the Office of the Prime Minister



Symon de Nobriga – Minister in the Office of the Prime Minister



Hassell Bacchus – Minister in the Ministry of Public Administration and Digital Transformation



Foster Cummings – Minister in the Ministry of Works and Transport