Japan’s longest-serving PM Shinzo Abe resigns				




Tokyo, Japan – Shinzo Abe, Japan’s longest-serving prime minister in history, announces his resignation, citing worsening health condition.



“Even though there is one year to go in my tenure and there are challenges to be met, I have decided to stand down as prime minister.”



The announcement comes days after he made at least two hospital visits in a week. Abe suffers from ulcerative colitis, a non-curable inflammatory bowel disease.



Abe apologised to the people of Japan for being unable to fulfil his duties during the coronavirus pandemic.








   








Abe’s political career



Abe became Japan’s youngest prime minister in 2006, at age 52 but his term ended just a year later because of his health. He returned to power in December 2012 and won six straight national elections thereafter.



After Abe’s re-election in 2012, he launched a grand experiment popularly known as “Abenomics,” to revive the country’s economy and boost consumer and investor confidence.



Abe has been a firm conservative politician and is known for his nationalist policies, particular his leanings towards revisionist history.



One of Abe’s major domestic achievements was securing the 2020 Tokyo Olympics, a success that was ultimately undone by the coronavirus, which forced the competition to be postponed to 2021.



CNN’s Will Ripley reflects on Shinzo Abe’s political career as the prime minister in a report.







Japan’s next prime minister 



Abe said he will remain in office until a successor is chosen.



The Liberal Democratic Party, headed by Abe, will convene next Tuesday to hold an election for a replacement as party leader, Kyodo news agency reports.



After which, a parliamentary vote will follow to elect a new prime minister.



Potential successors have already emerged, including Deputy Prime Minister Taro Aso, Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga, and LDP policy chief Fumio Kishida, who is rumoured to be Mr Abe’s choice.



None are expected to deviate significantly from the government’s current policies.



The next elected prime minister would hold the post until the end of Mr Abe’s term in September 2021.