Mandatory face covering at business places in Montserrat				




Persons entering business places are required to wear a face covering, as the Government of Montserrat continues to encourage COVID-19 safety practices.



Under the new Order, ‘S.R.O 49 of 2020 Public Health (COVID19 Suppression) (No.4) (Amendment) Order”, customers and visitors shall wear a face covering when entering and while conducting business in the following places:



Bank;Government Office;Hospital;Clinic or Health Care Centre;The grocery store or supermarket; andAny other place of business.



The order also outlines persons who are exempt from the mandatory face covering requirement. They are:



Child age 3 years and under:A person who has a medical, health, cognitive condition, or a disability which prevents him or her from wearing a face-covering; A customer who is dining at a restaurant or food shop;A customer, when that customer is drinking at a bar or rum shop; andA person who is exercising at a gym.



The face-covering must cover the person’s nose, mouth and chin without gap.







Travel to Montserrat



The new order also makes an amendment to the categories of persons allowed to travel to (disembark) Montserrat. The dependent (husband, wife, child or other dependents) of a Montserratian, Permanent Resident, Resident or Home Owner is allowed to travel to Montserrat if he or she resided in Montserrat for any period of time prior to March 16, 2020.



Additionally, a professional person who has been engaged (employed) by the Government of Montserrat is allowed to travel to Montserrat. However, that individual must obtain permission from the Minister of Health to disembark in Montserrat.



All other arrangements under the previous order remain in place, including the 50-person limit on large gatherings.



The Order takes effect from Tuesday August 4, at 5:00 a.m and will expire on Sunday August 30, 2020 at 5:00 a.m.



Full SRO here







In other news:



First dog to test positive for the coronavirus In the US has died