“Inside-Out” for Bermuda’s tourism				




The Bermuda Tourism Authority has unveiled a calendar of upcoming “Inside-Out” marketing promotions to help stimulate local spending while engaging visitors and encouraging more travellers to the island.



During a press briefing, the BTA and stakeholder partners highlighted a series of events and marketing promotions planned for the next several months, as airlift from target market destinations continues to build.



“These are events we hope either inspire travel or delight a visitor who discovers them after they’ve already chosen to come here,” said Glenn Jones, the BTA’s Interim CEO.



Jones added that BTA hopes that residents will take part in the inside-out campaign to help Bermuda’s tourism industry get back on its feet.



“Part of our goal is to show the community, and indeed the world, that in Bermuda we can create meaningful experiences that happen safely, responsibly and enjoyably.”







The “Inside-Out” campaign event calendar







The BTA said that themed promotional initiatives the BTA is rolling out over the next three months include:



Racquet Week [Aug 28–Sept 4] – pays homage to Bermuda’s tennis heritage leading up to the US Open, for which Bermuda is the tournament’s exclusive tourism partner. A special courtside reception & exhibition event will be kick off the week this Friday evening at the WER Joell Tennis Stadium, where top local players will play exhibition matches on Court One. Tickets for Tennis: The Bermuda Legacy is available via Ptix.Bermuda Staycation Month [September] – Local residents are invited to take a relaxing break and experience their favourite hotels. Whether it’s a mid-week getaway or a weekend retreat, with or without the family, 10 participating hotels island-wide are offering locals-only rates. Visit gotobermuda.com/staycation for exclusive resident-only offers starting at $175.Alfresco Dining Festival [Sept 17–26] – Stretching end-to-end, the festival aims to drive residents and visitors into local restaurants and encourage them to eat outside. Some three-dozen establishments have signed up so far, and the BTA is partnering with stakeholders in the City of Hamilton and the East and West Ends to hold special events, including a closed-street, pedestrian-only experience along Bermudiana Road, Hamilton; a celebration in the Royal Naval Dockyard’s Victualling Yard and at multiple restaurants around the historic venue; and dinner under the stars at Fort St Catherine, St George’s.World Tourism Day [Sept 27] – This internationally recognised day aims to raise awareness about the importance of tourism and its social, cultural and economic value. The BTA plans to leverage the opportunity to encourage visitors and residents to experience tourism activities and will highlight local businesses offering deals and discounts.Yacht & Catamaran Week [Oct 23–31] – Celebrating the island’s maritime heritage, this promotion will showcase Bermuda’s nautical tourism appeal during the 70th Bermuda Gold Cup, a World Match Racing Tour regatta. Spanning the period of the PGA TOUR Bermuda Championship, it also seeks to engage local catamaran operators in a special weekend festival.Spa Month [November] – Mirroring the BTA’s popular annual February promotion, this will bring back special deals for R&R—for visitors and locals—at the island’s spas.