General elections called in Bermuda				




The people of Bermuda will go to the polls on October 1st after the Premier called the general elections las Friday, almost two years ahead of the 2022 constitutional deadline.



Incumbent Premier and Progressive Labour Party (PLP) leader David Burt said he chose the option that saves Bermudian taxpayers money.



“In accordance with the Bermuda Constitution, the Governor has accepted my advice to hold a General Election on October 1st. The prospect of a series of bye-elections does not represent the best use of the public purse at this time but a General Election by which the people of Bermuda will safely cast their votes will allow us as a community to devote our efforts to the rebuilding of our economy and the creation of greater opportunity for Bermudians who have shown strength and commitment to each other during this challenging period.”















The last General Election was held in July 2017, with the PLP winning 24 of the 36 seats in the House of Assembly.



New constituency boundaries will be in effect and any voter who has a change of address needs to register at the Parliamentary Registry website www.elections.gov.bm.



Deadline voter’s registration is on August 29th while September 10th is Nomination day.







Reactions to the upcoming polls







Political figures have mixed and opposing reactions to Burt’s announcement.



Craig Cannonier, the leader of the One Bermuda Alliance (OBA), claimed that a General Election could cost more than $1 million amid the global pandemic.



“We are wasting $1 Million just as the Premier has asked hard-working civil servants to take a pay cut and is threatening to make enforced cuts on workers who served this country on the COVID-19 front line. This [election] is not necessary now. With more than two years left before an election has to be called and a 25-11 majority – do the job you are meant to do, fix the economy.”



Cannonier added that Burt is acting out of his self-interest.



Meanwhile, Sir John Swan, a former premier in the old United Bermuda Party and the longest-serving, said that he thinks the Premier has made the right decision.



“Let’s get the election out of the way. Then we can focus on getting the country in a better economic condition. If David Burt can succeed at that as he has done with COVID-19, everyone will love him.



Swan added that if he too would have called elections if in the position.



Charles Jeffers, a political pundit and former leader of the National Liberal Party, predicts that PLP will again reign the elections.