Tropical Depression 13 is now Tropical Storm Laura				




Caribbean braces for another possible tropical storm with TD 14



In the latest advisory of the National Hurricane Center (NHC) of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), tropical depression 13 has strengthened and is now officially Tropical Storm Laura. 



With maximum sustained winds of around 45 mph (75 km/h), Laura was centered about 305 miles (490 kilometers) east of the northern Leeward Islands on Friday morning.



Earlier, a tropical storm watch was initially in effect on a number of Cariibbean islands, including the countries of Saba and St. Eustatius, St. Maarten, Antigua and Barbuda, St. Kitts and Nevis, and Anguilla. 



A tropical storm watch is placed when ideal conditions of a tropical storm are possible within an area, generally within 48 hours.



Today, these nations are under tropical storm warning, which means the tropical storm could now be felt in their areas anytime, within 12 to 24 hours.



Along with the aforementioned Caribbean islands, Puerto Rico, Vieques and Culebra, U.S. Virgin Islands, British Virgin Islands, and St. Martin and St. Barthelemy have all been given the same warning.



The NHC has also advised the governments of Dominican Republic, Haiti, the Bahamas, and Cuba to monitor the progress of Laura. 



Forecasters said tropical Storm Laura poses a potential hurricane threat to Florida and the U.S. Gulf Coast.



Tropical Depression 14 looms



Farther west of the Caribbean, tropical Depression 14 is expected to become a tropical storm, according to the latest forecast of the NHC.



It is expected to pass by the Atlantic coast of Honduras, and then make its way north to Mexico’s Yucatan Peninsula possibly at hurricanestrength.



Tropical Depression 14 was centered about 30 miles (45 kilometers) north-northeast of Cabo Gracias a Dios on the Honduras-Nicaragua border, with maximum sustained winds of 35 mph (55 kph). It was headed west-northwest at 12 mph (19 kph).



Meanwhile, weakening to a tropical storm early this week, Genevieve, which had been a powerful Category 4 hurricane with winds of 130 mph (215 kph), moved northwestward in the Pacific off Mexico’s Los Cabos tourist zone.



The hurricane center said the storm is expected to become a tropical depression by Friday evening, according to a report by the Associated Press.



Genevieve took out a large part of Los Cabos’ power and phone service, flooding streets in low-income neighborhoods and knocked down palms in their tourist zone.