Mottley recovering; COVID-19 cases in Barbados				




Barbados’ Prime Minister Mia Mottley is on the road to recovery after her successful medical procedure for an undisclosed illness.



Acting Prime Minister Santia Bradshaw delivered the update in a brief statement.



“The Prime Minister is now resting comfortably and has
asked that sentiment of gratitude be conveyed to all who lifted her up in their
prayers, called or sent messages of support and well wishes. Her sole wish now
is that the country would unite in its resolve to manage and contain the spread
of the dreaded Covid-19 virus in Barbados.”



Bradshaw said that Mottley is “in high spirits” and her
operation was a “success” as per her medical team. 







Mottley continues to monitor COVID-19 in Barbados



Prior to her leave of absence, Mottley announced the COVID-19 Team would remain in place to head the respective areas of law, health, and logistics and supply chain.



 The government has activated Stage 3 if the National Barbados COVID-19 Preparedness Plan. 



During her national address last Thursday, Prime Minister Mia Mottley said that only essential services are operating and that a curfew is imposed from 8:00 pm to 6:00 am daily until the 14th of April.



“I want to make it absolutely clear, in the matter
of the 8 pm to 6 am restricted activity-curfew, the government of Barbados is
not playing!  All persons not stated with
the essential services and not having a good reason to be on the road after 8
pm and before 6 am shall be dealt with in accordance with the spirit and the
intent of the law.”



Everyone is also encouraged to minimize their movement even daytime.



Meanwhile, health authorities said that as of Friday, 27th March 2020, 26 tested positive for COVID-19  out of the 233 tests conducted.



“Two more positive cases have been identified taking us
now to 26. One of those is a 65-year-old Barbadian who had travelled to the
United States and returned. That person is now in isolation and contact tracing
has begun. We are moving aggressively to be able to identify, locate and treat
those contacts. […] The other person, I am awaiting further information on
that individual,” said Minister of Health Lt Col Jeffrey Bostic



Bostic also disclosed that Barbados will be receiving medical aid from Cuba to help in its fight against the novel coronavirus.