Letter: Dr Chalkdust articles on “Have respect for Ph.Ds.”				




Dear Editor,



I read with great interest the two-part series by Dr Hollis “Chalkdust” Liverpool entitled “Have respect for PhDs – heroes of academia” published in one of the Trinidad and Tobago daily newspapers (Newsday Sept 4-5, 2020)



In his articles, Dr Liverpool emphasised the rigorous process of earning a Ph.D., namely taking courses in research methods and theories in the respective fields of study, writing exams and writing a dissertation with a chapter each on methodology, theoretical framework and literature review.



Dr Liverpool is the Head of Department in the Academy of Arts, Letters, Culture and Public Affairs (ALCPA) at The University of Trinidad and Tobago (UTT).



Can Dr Liverpool say why at least three, maybe more, students in his Academy did not take any course and write any exam, yet was granted a Ph.D.? Worse, their Ph.D. dissertations do not even have a page, far less a chapter, on methodology, theoretical framework and literature review.



One graduate from UTT did his dissertation on Indian movies. He graduated with a Ph.D. in Cultural Studies in the Academy without having any MA or MPhil degree (in any field).



This matter is of public interest because UTT is our only national university, funded by taxpayers, which claims to be internationally accredited.



The public eagerly awaits Dr Liverpool’s reply on this national issue.











Sincerely, 



Fatimah Mohammed



Chin Chin Road, Cunupia, Trinidad and Tobago







Editorial Disclaimer



The Caribbean News Now welcomes letters to the editor of 400 words or less. The letters may be edited for clarity, legal ramifications, length or general taste at the editor’s discretion. We also reserve the right to refuse to publish submitted letters for the same reasons. All letters must be signed. Any views or opinions are not intended to malign any religion, ethnic group, club, organization, company, or individual.



Letters published do not necessarily reflect the views of The Caribbean News Now, its Publisher, its staff or its advertisers.