Bermuda elections update				




Bermuda Health Ministry assures Bermudians that they will be able to vote in the upcoming elections on October 1st amid the prevalence of COVID-19.



In a media briefing, Health Minister Kim Wilson Wilson said that there were recent amendments to the Parliamentary Election Act. The amendments include the right for prisoners on parole to vote and allowing high-risk Bermudians like the senior citizens and the medically vulnerable to cast their vote early or from their homes.



“There has been a lot of concern raised about accessibility to voting. I am here today to speak about the measures the Government has taken to make voting safer and more accessible than ever before.”



Wilson also noted that the Government will be following the Caribbean Public Health Agency (CARPHA) guidelines to ensure there are no cases for transmission. 



Moreover, people in quarantine will also be able to vote by following the guidelines released by the Parliamentary Registry.



It was earlier announced that come election day, voters will have to wear a mask to enter the polling station, must have their temperatures checked and also sanitise their hands.







One Bermuda Alliance’s returning candidates



Susan Jackson and Scott Pearman will be contesting for the parliamentary seats under the One Bermuda Alliance (OBA).



Jackson will compete in Constituency 20 (Pembroke South West) while Pearman will contest for Constituency 22 (Paget East).



“It’s going to take a lot of strength for us to recover from the effects of COVID-19. It’s important that we get this right,” Jackson stated. 



Pearman meanwhile noted the island is heavily indebted and it will soon affect the quality of life for all citizens.







Progressive Labour Party’s new representatives



On the other hand, the ruling Progressive Labour Party (PLP) presented two new candidates.  



Premier David Burt announced Senator Ianthia Simmons-Wade will run in Constituency 25 (Warwick North East) and Jache Adams in Constituency 19 (Pembroke West).



Simmons-Wade, who said will continue to champion the concerns of the elderly, will replace Minister of Finance Curtis Dickinson. 



Dickinson is transferred to Constituency 21 (Pembroke South East) to replace veteran politician Rolfe Commissiong.



Adams will go head to head with the One Bermuda Alliance’s Marcus Jones.