John Rankin appointed as new BVI Governor				




The UK government announced that John Rankin, Bermuda’s current Governor, has been appointed Governor of the British Virgin Islands (BVI) come January 2021.



Rankin will be replacing Governor Augustus Jaspert whose term ends in early 2021.



The Government of the Virgin Islands website said that Rankin is expected to arrive in the new year.



“Mr Rankin is expected to arrive in the new year when Governor Jaspert’s appointment is due to conclude. This will allow time for him to settle ahead of the key priorities that the Territory expects to face in 2021. He brings with him more than 30 years of experience in the public service, most recently serving as Governor to Bermuda.”



Governor Jaspert said while he and his family are sad to leave the BVI after just over three years, he is thankful for the opportunity to serve.



“I am very grateful for the opportunity to have met and worked with so many inspiring individuals and to have served the people of BVI over the past years. I am also grateful that I was able to extend my appointment so that I could stay on to help the Territory plan and deliver our immediate response to the unprecedented circumstances we have faced this year.”



Speaking on his appointment, Rankin said he looks forward to working in a partnership with the government of the Virgin Islands.



“2020 has not been without its challenges. But the people of the Virgin Islands have shown great strength and spirit in meeting those challenges and I promise to do all I can to support the building of further resilience against the risk of natural disasters.”



Rankin added that he is looking forward to contributing to life on the Islands and to carrying out my responsibilities under the Constitution in the areas of external affairs, security, and good governance.



Meanwhile, Rena Lalgie will replace Rankin as Governor of Bermuda by December 2020. Lalgie is the first woman and first person of African heritage to occupy the position.