Guyana election probe update				




At least 6 people have been invited for questioning and or to face charges before the court since the Guyana Police Force (GPF) launched the comprehensive probe on the alleged fraud in the general elections held last March.



Keith Lowenfield, Guyana’s Chief Elections Officer, was the latest to be arrested on Saturday.



Guyana Police Force (GPF) said they arrested Lowenfield and several allegations were served at him in the presence of his legal counsel.



“After being told of the allegations, Mr Lowenfield exercised his right to remain silent. Thereafter, a confrontation was held between him and a witness and once again Mr Lowenfield opted to remain silent.”



Lowenfield was released on station bail on the “condition that he reports to the Criminal Investigations Department (CID) Headquarters on Monday.



The election probe centered on two Guyana Elections Commission (GECOM) officers – Lowenfield and District Four Returning Officer Clairmont Mingo.



Mingo was arrested last month and was charged with four counts of misconduct in public office, after using a spreadsheet to declare the APNU+AFC coalition the winner of District Four. His numbers were later proven to be false. 







Other Guyana elections staff arrested 



Apart from Lowenfield and Mingo, other GECOM staff were taken into police custody.



Mingo’s three assistants, Sheffern February, Michelle Miller and Carolyn Mikhaik Duncan were so-called “accessories” to the attempt to defraud the people of Guyana.



Enrique Livan, GECOM’s Information Technology, was also brought before the court on a charge of manipulating the numbers of the statements of the poll that were recorded in the system so that they reflected fraudulent numbers.



The Guyana Police Force (GPF) has also arrested Duarte Hetsberger, Keith Lowenfield’s Personal Assistant, early this month.



No less than President Dr. Irfaan Ali said that a comprehensive investigation would be conducted into the problems surrounding the March 2 regional and general elections.



“Very importantly we will pursue the necessary reforms to make our democracy stronger and our electoral process more transparent.”