BVI to reopen borders to tourists in December				




The British Virgin Islands (BVI) is set to reopen its borders to tourists in December — nine months following its closure due to the COVID-19 pandemic.



Premier and Minister of Finance Andrew Fahie made the announcement on Monday at the launch of the British Virgin Islands Tourist Board’s (BVITB) new BVILOVE campaign.



Fahie said that the Government is optimistic and is vigorously preparing for the re-opening of the Territory to welcome back tourists among others.



“The Territory has two full months to prepare and we as a people must get it right and we must get it done by all  working together, both the Government and private sector.”



The Premier added that the Government intends to reopen the islands in the safest way possible with the help of science and technology.



“This next phase also comes with a risk factor, where if a case of COVID-19 gets into our Territory, then it can go through the whole community very quickly.  That is why we must use technology,” he said, adding, “The concentration must be to use the technology through a simulation prior, to demonstrate that the technology will complement the science to greatly assist us in re-opening in the safest way, humanly possible.” 







#BVILOVE



Director of Tourism, Clive McCoy provided a brief synopsis of the components of our BVILOVE (Love Our Virgin Islands Everyday) Tourism Campaign.



McCoy said that the campaign is the clarion call for Tourism to take on a new look, a new feel, a new image and a new perspective.



“BVILOVE’s campaign is designed to bolster BVI’s image locally, regionally and abroad by focusing on what makes the BVI a special destination and business jurisdiction.”



McCoy noted that BVILOVE aims to address and boost the tourism industry locally to be able to get back on the international track.



“BVILOVE is our people. BVILOVE is you. BVILOVE is me. BVILOVE is our Tourism product. BVILOVE is the new BVI.”
















BVI residents needs to help



As BVI ushers into “the new regular”, Fahie urged the residents to do their part to suppress the spread of the virus.



“Please note that we who are in the Virgin Islands must also play our part and play it well to ensure that we adhere to all approved social distancing measures. This will also reduce or eliminate any possible spread of the virus.”



The Premier added that the public must wear masks, practice social distancing, washing and sanitising of hands, and following all other approved protocols because everyone is accountable for each other.



The Government of the Virgin Islands is using a phased approach to the Territory’s borders amid the COVID-19 pandemic. Phase 1 of the Controlled Border reentry process commenced on June 2 while phase two of the reentry process which commenced last September 1.