Caribbean leaders call for a united front against COVID-19				




Caribbean leaders called for a strengthened and united global cooperation to overcome the socio-economic crisis brought about by the COVID-19 pandemic. 



The leaders also highlighted the importance of gender equality, improving access to technology and closing the digital divide, addressing inequalities within societies, strengthening climate action, and, in line with the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), ensuring no one is left behind. 







“The need to cooperate“



Jamaica’s Prime Minister Andrew Holness was the first to deliver his pre-recorded address.



He said that COVID-19 has highlighted the need for nations to cooperate to curb the pandemic. 



“The COVID-19 pandemic has highlighted the interconnectedness and interdependence of our world. It has underscored the need for strengthened and renewed multilateralism. As we strive to respondand recover stronger, we must reimagine the way nations cooperate. Persistent global problems require consistent cooperation to achieve strategic global solutions.”



Holness said that an excellent example of such effective multilateral cooperation is the UN COVID-19 Response and Recovery Fund which supports low- and middle-income countries overcome the health and development crisis caused by the pandemic. The fund also supports those most vulnerable to economic hardship and social disruption. 



The Prime Minister likewise voiced concerns over the socio-economic fallout from the pandemic, in particular on efforts to beat back non-communicable diseases, as well as the disproportionate impact on, and rise in, violence against women and girls. 







Lift each other up from COVID-19 



CARICOM Chairman and Prime Minister of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Ralph E. Gonsalves said that naitons will be able to protect themselves when they safeguard their neighbours.



“The urgent challenges of our times cannot be solved by building walls, nor can they be effectively addressed by retreating to a corner of nationalistic isolationism. We must build bridges. And we must stand shoulder to shoulder with our brothers and sisters throughout the world as we lift each other up from COVID-19.”



In his speech, Gonsalves paid tribute to all frontline workers and first responders whom he describes as “Capeless Heroes” because of their selfless contributions and sacrifices throughout this pandemic. 



He then underscored the need for predictable and reliable financing such as through concessional loans, development assistance, and debt relief, to help small island developing states (SIDS) safeguard their development progress. 







Other Caribbean leaders “call to unite”



Prime Minister Timothy Harris of Saint Kitts and Nevis said that the time for mutual reliance is now.  



“The year 2020 has taught us as a people, nation and indeed an interconnected world that the time for mutual reliance is upon us and that we need each other now more than ever if we are to rebuild and strengthen the socio-economic foundations laid bare from this two-fanged crisis. The time is now.”



Also speaking, the Prime Minister of Saint Lucia, Allen Chastanet, said small island developing States were often the most vulnerable while being the least responsible for the predicament they find themselves in, especially when it comes to fighting climate change. 



“SIDS are the most indebted, yet we are the least likely to get debt relief…the smallest producers of global goods and services, yet we are the most restricted by the rules of international trade.”



Chastanet added that SIDS are the smallest emitters of carbon, yet  the most affected by climate change.



Prime Minister of Trinidad and Tobago Keith Rowley also spoke about shared reliance among all countries in fighting COVID-19.



“Like many other Small Island Developing States (SIDS) around the world contending with the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, Trinidad and Tobago has had to walk a thin line between saving lives and preserving livelihoods, with limited resources.”



Rowley added the perils of climate change for his country, other small island nations and least developed countries everywhere.



Prime Minister of the Bahamas Hubert Minnis meanwhile expressed his solidarity with all other nations fighting COVID-19 and his condolences at the loss of lives.