Turks and Caicos extends curfew				




The Government of the Turks and Caicos Islands extends the current curfew imposed up to the 4th of May to curb the spread of COVID-19.



Premier Sharlene Cartwright-Robinson made the announcement in her latest address to the nation.



“Today we determined that it is in the best interest of all to have the curfew extended further. A decision has then been taken to extend March 26th curfew first imposed to May 4th, 2020.”



The Premier said that a special meeting of the cabinet took place where the Ministry of Health presented a full analysis of TCI’s state in the fight against COVID-19.



In closing, Turks and Caicos Premier stressed the importance of practising social distancing, staying at home and following the authorities.



“We will get through this together and we will be better for it once we follow health’s advice which we have already begun to realise and benefit from. Together we are strongest and we must remain our brother’s keeper. We assure you that health remains our top priority and will continue to drive all decisions.”



As of 12am, 12th April, TCI’s Ministry of Health said that the total number of confirmed COVID-19 cases remains at nine (9).







Additional restrictions due to COVID-19







Apart from the extension of the 24-hour curfew, the government imposed the following additional restrictions until the 6:00 am of 4th May:



No inter-island travel except for banking, medical-related concerns, emergencies and cargo.



Complete closure of businesses each Wednesday and Sunday each week beginning Sunday 18th April except for medical facilities, hotels with residential guests, and security services.



No water activities and sports



Airports will remain closed to all regional, international and private flights.



Classes at all levels across the islands will remain suspended.



No visits in prison, detention centres, wellness centres and in the Provo Children’s Home.



Strict implementation of social distancing, surveillance as well as quarantine measures



Moreover, the provision to protect vulnerable under TCIG’s full or partial responsibility will remain in place until the 4th May.



Meanwhile, the Cruise Port will remain closed until June 30th, 2020 based on CDC guidelines and consultation with the cruise industry.



Naval vessels may enter and dock at Turks and Caicos, however, only TCIG doctors and public health officials can go on or off the vessel.