“Better Days Will Return” – Queen Elizabeth II				




In a rare televised address, Queen Elizabeth II urged the people to rise to the challenge of the COVID-19 pandemic, reminding everyone that “better days will return”.



“While we may have more still to endure, better days will return: we will be with our friends again; we will be with our families again; we will meet again.



Speaking in a pre-recorded video, the 93-year old monarch called for unity during this incredibly challenging time.



“Together we are tackling this disease, and I want to reassure you that if we remain united and resolute, then we will overcome it.”



In what was only the fifth televised address of her 68-year reign,



The Queen heaped praise on the frontline working battling COVID-19.



“I want to thank everyone on the NHS (National Health Service) front line, as well as care workers and those carrying out essential roles, who selflessly continue their day-to-day duties outside the home in support of us all. I am sure the nation will join me in assuring you that what you do is appreciated and every hour of your hard work brings us closer to a return to more normal times.”



She also thanked those who were staying at home.



Her Majesty concluded her message to the nation – the fifth televised address of her 68-year reign, by again requesting for unity.



“This time we join with all nations across the globe in a common endeavour, using the great advances of science and our instinctive compassion to heal. We will succeed — and that success will belong to every one of us.”



Queen Elizabeth and her 98-year-old husband, Prince Philip, are currently staying at Windsor Castle.



To date, the United Kingdom has recorded more than 48,000 cases of COVID-19. Meanwhile, coronavirus-related death in the UK is nearly 5,000, the fourth-highest recorded in the world.








Her Majesty The Queen addresses the UK and the Commonwealth in a special broadcast recorded at Windsor Castle. pic.twitter.com/HjO1uiV1Tm— The Royal Family (@RoyalFamily) April 5, 2020