COVID-19 and the hurricane season in the Caribbean				




Countries in the Caribbean region are bracing for a possible two-tier crisis – a deadly hurricane amidst the COVID-19 pandemic.



Weather and science experts are anticipating an “above-average” probability for category 3 and above hurricanes for this season which begins on 1 June 2020. Scientists added that there is a 58 per cent chance for the Caribbean to be hit by at least one major hurricane.



World Bank has reported that natural disasters cost the region an estimated US$8.6 billion between 1996 and 2015.



The Caribbean Disaster Emergency Management Agency (CDEMA) noted that in the last three years alone, natural disasters cost in excess of US$118 billion.







Hurricane preparation amidst COVID-19



The preparation for this year’s hurricane season is offbeat.



Several Caribbean countries have already reallocated funds and resources for stimulus packages. Governments said that about one per cent to four per cent of their annual earnings were redistributed to soften COVID-19’s blow on citizens and industries.



Ronald Jackson, outgoing head of CDEMA said there are serious questions about the level of the preparedness of many Caribbean countries because of their heavy focus on COVID-19.



“What resources are now available for traditional preparedness expenses? Warehousing supplies, shelter facilities are being used as isolation facilities. The biggest concern is going to be resource availability to deal with the COVID crisis and the implication it will have for the upcoming hurricane season.”



Jackson added that international donor money is becoming harder to find.



“It really is around how much you’ve had to draw down to tackle this particular crisis before the next crisis comes.”



Other health experts agree that the current COVID-19 situation in the Caribbean is affecting the hurricane season contingency planning.



“The big spike of COVID-19 in the region is going to be from the middle of April to middle of May… the hurricane season is coming in June. Maybe we will have a gap between them, and we will have opportunities to be better prepared. But if this does not happen and there is an overlap between COVID and the hurricane season, it’s going to be more critical”, said Walter Cotte, Americas Regional Director for the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies



CARICOM’s Council for Foreign and Community Relations is due to meet May 7-8 and is expected to agree to engagement with the Donald Trump administration for ways to support member states facing COVID-induced economic hardships.







In other news:



Barbados is not losing sight of its long-term transformation goals amidst the current COVID-19 pandemic