Grenada flour mill shut due to COVID-19				




Grenada authorities have ordered the shut down of Caribbean Agro Industries Ltd., the country’s lone flour mill, due to COVID-19.



The Government has ordered the closure of the US-owned firm after health authorities have confirmed that four (4) out of the eight (8) active COVID-19 cases in Grenada are workers from the abovementioned company.



In a statement via the Government Information Service (GIS) Dr George Mitchell, COVID-19 Response Coordinator disclosed that the new COVID-19 patient is a male and is a work colleague of the country’s 15th case and 2 others that were announced last Saturday.



“As per health protocol, all confirmed cases are quarantined, as well as their close contacts. Health officials continue to tirelessly conduct contact tracing, to ascertain the probability of further transmission.”



Mitchell added that officials have not yet determined the original point of contact for the workplace cases. Hence, there is the possibility of community spread.



“We must all be prepared for the probability of a community spread. From our end, we are expanding our teams in preparation for that possibility — since it will necessitate increased testing, contact tracing, building capacity for quarantine, active monitoring and other related activities.”



He then urged citizens to help the ministry team by following all advise health protocols.



“We will continue to remind you of the guidelines for protecting yourself and others, at every turn. We already know that frequent handwashing, overall good hygiene practices, physical distancing of at least 6 feet, and wearing a mask or suitable face-covering in public spaces, will go a long way in safeguarding further spread of this disease.”



To date, Grenada has nineteen (19) positive cases with ten (10) recoveries and zero (0) deaths. Only eighteen (18) are on the island because one of the early cases returned to the United Kingdom.







In Other News:



Countries in the Caribbean region are bracing for a possible two-tier crisis – a deadly hurricane amidst the COVID-19 pandemic.