St. Kitts-Nevis on 3-day Total Lockdown				




St. Kitts and Nevis will be on total lockdown until the 3rd of April to slow the spread of COVID-19 on the island.



Prime Minister Timothy Harris announced the decision in an address to the nation – two days after the he declared a 14-day state of emergency.



Harris said that despite a clear statement that citizens must stay at home except in limited situations, law enforcements reported that many are still defying the rules.



“The Cabinet of Ministers has determined that there be a 24-hour curfew, a total lockdown, from 7:00 pm Tuesday 31st March to 6:00 am Friday 3rd April in the first instance. It means that the current regulations will be repealed, and new regulations made in which no one except the Security Forces and other Security Personnel, the HealthCare Officers, technical emergency officers of utilities including telecoms, and media personnel, will be allowed out of their residences.”



The Prime Minister emphasised the necessity of imposed lockdown to slow the human-to-human transmission of COVID-19 pandemic. As well as reduction of secondary infection among close contacts and health care employees.







“We must win this war against COVID-19”



The government reiterated that responsible behaviour of each citizen is essential to win the war against COVID-19.



“We are in a war and we must win. Together we must be united with all of us doing our part to ensure our safety, that of our families, communities and by extension our beloved country. This is not a time for reckless behaviour. Sober, responsible behaviour is essential.”



Prime Minster Harris added that law enforcement will not hesitate to arrest and charged those who will breach the implemented COVID-19 regulations.



He also assured the public that there is an adequate supply of food on hand.



“This week alone some 57 containers are arriving with food, vegetables and beverages. The short point is that vessels are coming on schedule every week.  Do not crowd shopping centres to purchase and stockpile food that may very well expire and ultimately be a waste of money, as you would have to dispose of it.  An adequate supply is on hand for the next six to eight weeks.”



Prime Minister Harris is optimistic that the country will be able to surpass the challenge if the people unite.



“I am satisfied that as long as we adhere to the Emergency Powers (COVID-19) Regulations, and we take the advice of our health experts and pray to our God, everything will work for the good.”