New spike of COVID-19 cases in Grenada				




Thirteen (13) new positive cases of COVID-19 have been diagnosed in Grenada in the last 36 hours, increasing the total active cases to fifty-four (54).



In a release by Grenada GIS, the Ministry of Health said that all infected individuals are in quarantine in state facilities, or at home, where they are being monitored.



The current COVID-19 epidemiological situation in Grenada is outlined as follows:



Nine (9) of the new positive cases are concentrated in one householdTwelve (12) of the new cases are related to the outbreak cluster, previously announcedOne new case is imported. A 37-year old female traveller who arrived in Grenada from St. Vincent with a negative PCR test result, went directly into quarantine, in keeping with the entry protocols and tested positive on Day 4.



As per the guidelines of the world’s governing health organisations, the Ministry advises that a second test must be conducted on all positive individuals between 12 and 14 days after their first test before they are granted medical clearance. 



The Ministry also said that all individuals who tested negative but were exposed to the cluster will also be retested in the coming week to ascertain their status. 



“These individuals must remain in isolation until the second test, to avoid exposing other individuals and broadening the cluster.” 



Along with the spike in cases, all incoming travelers to Grenada were advised that they may experience delay in their testing and clearance as the authorities do what is necessary to curb the current situation.



The Ministry then urged citizens who have tested positive or may have been exposed to the virus to obey quarantine and isolation orders.



“In the last week, there has been a high degree of transmission within households in Grenada. There are currently two (2) instances in which more than ten (10) people in the same household have tested positive. Please be reminded that if you have been exposed to the virus, or if you have tested positive, you must quarantine or self-isolate, as mandated, so as not to endanger the health or lives of your loved ones.”



Likewise, the public is also advised to get current, official and verified information from the Ministry of Health and the Government Information Service.



At 8:00pm tonight, Prime Minister Keith Mitchell will address the nation to announce the schedule of the new curfew that will be imposed.