PAHO gives St Vincent & the Grenadines aid to fight COVID-19 and Dengue				




PAHO News – St. Vincent and the Grenadines recently received a generous donation to continue the mission of safeguarding health care workers during the COVID-19 pandemic and assist with managing the dengue outbreak.



Dr. Rufus W. Ewing, PAHO Advisor, Health Systems and Services, on behalf of Dr. Yitades Gebre, PAHO/WHO Representative to Barbados and Eastern Caribbean Countries, explained that the donated items were valued at US$264,472.63.



St. Vincent & the Grenadines received the following from PAHO:



4 Desktops for Surveillance23 A/C Units: For the Dental Unit, Laboratory Services & Health Disaster Coordinating Unit1 Laptop and 6 tablets for Adolescent HealthIT Equipment for the Molecular LabThermometers, face shields and batteries provided for school reopeningIT Equipment for Health the Psychology Unit for children with special needsVector Supplies including Thermal FoggersIT Equipment for the Nutrition UnitDevelopmental Toys for Children with Special NeedsPCR Tests Kits (1000 reactions)2 defibrillators5 oxygen concentratorsDialysis Machine and Supplies in support of dengue response and maintaining essential services



Dr. Ewing added that additional equipment and supplies, to be delivered before the end of the year, include:



Vital signs monitorsIntravenous Infusion pumpsLaptops and tablets



“These deliverables are in addition to those plans to be implemented by PAHO under the St. Vincent and the Grenadines $1 Million Pandemic Emergency Financing (PEF) fund,” stated Dr. Ewing.



Officials who gathered for the handover included the Hon. St. Clair Prince, Minister of Health, Wellness, and the Environment; Mr. Cuthbert Knights, Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Health, Wellness, and the Environment; Dr. Simone Keizer-Beache, Chief Medical Officer; Mrs. Nicole Slack-Liburd – PAHO Country Program Specialist for St. Vincent & the Grenadines; and the media.



The PAHO Advisor also informed that “PAHO is providing support to St. Vincent and the Grenadines and other PAHO member states to access the COVID-19 vaccines from the COVID-19 Vaccine Global Access (COVAX) Facility through the PAHO Revolving Fund.”



Receiving the donations on behalf of his country, Minister of Health, Wellness, and the Environment, the Hon. St. Clair Prince, commended PAHO for their continued collaboration.



“The kind of assistance we have been getting from PAHO has been tremendous,” said the Minister, describing PAHO’s assistance as “a large part in our response, particularly to COVID-19.”



St. Vincent and the Grenadines is working to make sure the response is “comprehensive and effective,” the Minister added, “and in doing so for COVID, we are doing so simultaneously for dengue.”