The Commonwealth and the CARICOM stand on Guyana’s Elections				




The Commonwealth and the CARICOM strongly urged all stakeholders to respect the decision of the Caribbean Court Justice (CCJ) on Guyana’s general elections.



Last week, the CCJ heard the appeal filed by Opposition Leader Bharrat Jagdeo and Irfaan Ali, the PPP/C presidential candidate seeking several reliefs, including an interpretation of the words ‘”more votes are cast” in Article 177(2)(b) of the Constitution of Guyana.



In its ruling, the CCJ nullified a recent report submitted by Guyana’s Chief Elections Officer (CEO) Keith Lowenfield in which he had dumped over 115,000 votes cast in the March 2 polls.



“It was for GECOM to ensure that the CEO submits a report in accordance with its directive June 16 in order to proceed along the path directed by the laws of Guyana”, said CCJ President Adrian Saunders.



The CCJ has also ruled that Lowenfield should produce a report directed by Guyana Elections Commission (GECOM) chairperson, Justice Claudette Singh.



Justice Singh had written to Lowenfield directing him to prepare a final report based on the results of the national recount, which lasted more than 30 days.







Statement by the Commonwealth Secretary-General, Patricia Scotland QC on Guyana’s Electoral Process



I note and welcome the 9 July 2020 statement from the Chairman of the Caribbean Community (CARICOM), Prime Minister of St Vincent and the Grenadines, Dr. The Hon. Ralph Gonsalves, which called on all stakeholders to respect the ruling of the Caribbean Court of Justice (CCJ), Guyana’s final court of appeal.



In accordance with the applicable laws and the constitution of Guyana, the CCJ exercised its final appellate jurisdiction, and, on 8 July 2020 handed down a clear and unambiguous ruling. The CCJ stated, “It is for GECOM to ensure that the election results are swiftly declared in accordance with the Laws of Guyana.”



Guyana is a much loved and valued member of the Commonwealth. On behalf of the entire Commonwealth family, I strongly encourage the Guyana Elections Commission (GECOM) to follow the directions given by the CCJ and decisively conclude the 2 March 2020 elections based on the results of the national recount. The will of the people as expressed in the 2 March 2020 General and Regional Elections must be respected for democracy to prevail in Guyana.



I urge all political actors and stakeholders in Guyana to accept and respect the results of the national recount and ensure that their words and actions promote an environment of peace, harmony and social cohesion among all Guyanese.    



Guyana’s destiny as a great nation rests on the shoulders of those men and women who are duty bound to make the right decision, respecting the will of the people and the rule of law, and ready to place their country before their personal ambitions.



The Commonwealth calls all leaders to be faithful to the common good, so that Guyana’s future may truly be forged today. 







Statement by CARICOM Chairman, Ralph Gonsalves



The Caribbean Community (CARICOM) welcomes the progress towards the finalisation of the electoral process in Guyana following the ruling of the Caribbean Court of Justice (CCJ) on Wednesday 8 July. The Community calls on all stakeholders to respect the ruling of the CCJ, Guyana’s final court of appeal.



Indeed, the CCJ in the summary judgement aptly stated: “It has been four months since the elections were held and the country has been without a Parliament for well over a year. No one in Guyana would regard this to be a satisfactory state of affairs. We express the fervent hope that there would quickly be a peaceable restoration of normalcy.”



Accordingly, the Court’s ruling should lead to a declaration by the Guyana Elections Commission (GECOM) of the results of the General and Regional Elections held on 2 March 2020, without further delay. 



CARICOM commends the continuing patience and calm of the people of Guyana and calls on all stakeholders to respect the rule of law. 







In other news:



London-born twins to be deported to two Caribbean nations.