The Bahamas Closes Borders to US Tourists				




Less than three weeks after reopening to international visitors, the Bahamas is closing its borders to tourists from the United States, effective Wednesday.



In a national address, Bahamas Prime Minister Hubert Minnis announced that airports and seaports would close to all travellers except those coming from Canada, the U.K. and EU.



“I understand the frustration and disappointment of many Bahamians and residents that may ensue as we reimplement certain restrictions,” Minnis said. “But as a country … we have to do what is right and we have to do what is necessary.”



Minnis added that Bahamasair, the country’s national carrier, will cease all outgoing flights to the United States immediately.



However, other outgoing commercial flights will still be allowed to repatriate U.S. visitors who’d been scheduled to leave The Bahamas after July 22.



On Sunday, the Bahamas Ministry of Health registered 15 new cases of COVID-19 ranking up the total tally to 153 cases.



Out of the 153 cases, 49 new infections have been recorded since the country’s borders fully reopened July 1. And of that number, 31 have been registered on the island of Grand Bahama.



The Bahamas is the closest Caribbean island to United States. Bimini, lies about 50 miles east of Miami and is reachable via charter boat or a two-hour fast ferry departing from Fort Lauderdale, Florida.







Other international visitors



Private international flights and charters for Bahamians, residents and visitors will be permitted. Pleasure craft and yachts will also be permitted.



Visitors from Canada, the United Kingdom and the European Union by air or by sea from overseas must fill out an online Health Visa form, which may take up to 72 hours to process, and so should be submitted within an adequate time frame. 



Approved Health Visas are issued a “green” confirmation, proof of which will need to be shown at airport check-in and upon arrival in the country.



Likewise, all travelers need to present a negative COVID-19 RT PCR test from an accredited laboratory taken within 10 days of their arrival.



Test results will need to be uploaded via the Health Visa portal, as well as presented in person upon arrival at the airport, where they will also be temperature-screened.



Everyone is required to wear masks during travel and throughout the entry process, and anyone displaying symptoms of the virus will be transferred by Bahamian health personnel for further evaluation, testing and possible quarantine. No self-quarantine period is required for those who pass their health checks and are granted entry into The Bahamas.







In other news:



DR on lockdown for 45 days