Online Governance Certification A Hit With Board Directors				




Rodney Bay, Saint Lucia – ​Recognised as the gold standard for governance training in the region, Caribbean Governance Training Institute (CGTI) continues to educate, inspire, and certify a growing cadre of high flyers from commercial, financial and public service organizations, including the Eastern Caribbean Central Bank, and Government of Antigua and Barbuda.



Two months ago, the unprecedented impact of the COVID-19 pandemic put a halt to CGTI’s island-hopping itinerary for 2020, as well as the executive training schedules of dozens of regional organisations. Bringing forward plans that were already in the pipeline to take the Caribbean Governance Training Institute online, CGTI was ahead of the game – as always.



Replacing the three-day in-person conferences of previous years, the Chartered Director Online Program is now six four-hour sessions, which according to CEO, Lisa Charles, allows participants to incorporate the training into their hectic schedules from the safety of their homes or offices.



“In response to the COVID-19 situation, we took our internationally-acclaimed Chartered Director Program online, offering the same course in a ‘virtual’, interactive format with live presentations from global governance gurus. It’s still the same dynamic educational content, focusing on the latest best practices that Caribbean Board Members need to know if they are to competently carry out their roles. The main advantage is that there is no travel necessary, which our delegates appreciate at this point in time.”



Eighteen delegates started the inaugural online C.Dir. course on June 15, and finished on July 6 with the final exam. All sessions were led by CGTI’s Executive Chairman & Principal, Dr. Chris Bart FCPA, F. CIoD, C.Dir., with topics including Principles of Good Governance; Roles, Responsibilities, Accountabilities and Culture; The Essentials of Financial Oversight; Strategic Thinking vs Strategic Planning; Risk Oversight; and Succession Planning. In just three weeks of remote learning, delegates became certified with the internationally recognised designation ‘Chartered Director’ (C.Dir.).



Participants representing, among others, Credit Suisse Trust Ltd. in The Bahamas, State Insurance Company Ltd. in Antigua and Bordier Bank (TCI) Ltd. in Turks and Caicos, concurred with Spencer Thomas, Chairman of Grenada’s National Telecommunications Regulatory Commission (NTRC), that the C.Dir. online course was “a highly-recommended programme, which reinforced the fundamental principles and best practices for good corporate governance. Enjoyable, highly beneficial, deep and insightful — a critical and necessary programme for a Director, especially in these challenging times.”



According to Keren Gilead of State Insurance Company in Antigua: “The method of delivery used by the facilitator was excellent. It was an eye-opener, and gave me a clearer understanding of ‘Good Governance’, as well as the roles and responsibilities of Board, directors and management in fulfilling the mandate of all the stakeholders.’



Bank of St. Vincent & The Grenadines Board Director, Omar L. Davis was also among the delegates who recommended the Chartered Director Course for members of other organisations who assign high priority to good governance in this rapidly changing global environment.



Said Mr. Davis, ““Due to some challenges occasioned by the Covid -19 pandemic, I almost withdrew from the June 2020 Chartered Director Online Program. The training received during this program was timely, focused, inspiring, and would facilitate in adding value as a Director. I am glad that I made the sacrifice to attend all the sessions notwithstanding my challenges.”



With such high praise resulting from its first outing, CGTI’s next Chartered Director Online Program will start in the autumn with a flexible choice of two itineraries: Starting on September 14, afternoon sessions will be on Monday and Wednesday from 1:30pm – 5:00pm, while an evening schedule on Tuesdays and Thursdays from 6:00pm – 9:30pm starts on September 15.



Please visit the official website ​to register and for more information on upcoming online learning events from Caribbean Governance Training Institute.







In other news:



The Bahamas to have more weekend lockdowns