Anguilla’s opposition wins election				




Anguilla’s opposition party has won 7 of the 11 seats in the recently concluded general election in the British Overseas Territory.



In a statement posted on its website, the Anguilla Progressive Movement (APM) said “a new story in Anguilla’s history has been written. “The story of change has begun …It’s your time now. Thank you for believing in us. Thank you for your support, your faith and your hope. Thank you for embracing our vision, and marching right beside us in this journey. We ask for your continued support and faith, as our work has just begun.”



An estimated 11, 950 voters were eligible to cast ballots Monday. The Central Electoral Office (CEO) said 32 candidates representing the two main political parties and 10 independents had contested the poll.



Under the electoral system of Aguilla, voters elect seven members in single-member constituencies by first-past-the-post voting and four at-large members elected from the entire island by plurality at-large voting. Voters may vote up to four candidates in the at-large seats, which replaced four appointees.



The victory for APM, led by Webster, is a reversal of the 2015 general election, when Banks led his AUF to victory by winning seven seats and the APM, which was recently formed, failing to win a seat.







Anguilla’s New Government



After the swearing-in ceremony, Premier Webster announced his seven-member Cabinet which including 2018 Miss Universe Great Britain, Ms Dee-Ann Kentish Rogers, who defeated former Premier Victor Banks.



The Honourable Premier, Dr. Ellis Lorenzo Webster will have responsibility for Ministry of Finance, Tourism and Health.



The Honourable Minister of Home Affairs – Mr. Kenneth Hodge



The Honourable Minister of Social Development and Education – Ms. Dee-Ann Kentish-Rogers



The Honourable Ministerial Assistant in the Ministry of Social Development with responsibility for Youth , Sports and Culture – Mr. Merrick Richardson



The Honourable Minister of Infrastructure – Mr.Haydn Hughes



The Honourable Parliamentary Secretary for Economic Development – Mrs. Quincia Gumbs-Marie



The Honourable Minister of Trade and Commerce – Mr. Kyle Hodge

















In other news:



Virtual hand-over ceremony For CARICOM chairmanship