Dominica officially opened borders				




The Nature Island of Dominica officially opened its borders last Wednesday for the return of nationals and residents after being closed in March due to the COVID-19 pandemic.



Health Minister, Dr. Irving McIntyre, has reported a “very smooth organization” as the country welcomed its first flight of six (6) passengers.



“It was a very smooth organization, everything went as planned”, said McIntyre.



The minister expressed his gratitude to all airport staff for their cooperation with the “new normal”,



“You all did an excellent job and for this, we are proud and let us continue to do it together. The things we have been doing before, all the public health and social measures that we’ve mentioned time and time again, we must not be naïve, we must face the reality that there may be, God forbid,  that there may be cases coming in.”



McIntyre also urged the public to play its part in keeping Dominica COVID-19 free.







Dominica Ports of Entry



The Ministry of International Transport said that protocols to be implemented to curb the spread of COVID-19 at the ports of entry will be simple and practical. 



Apart from the strict observance of mask-wearing, all persons entering the ports will be temperature screened upon arrival and departure.



“Temperature screening will be implemented at entry points at the Douglas-Charles Airport, Canefield Airport and LongHouse Port during the first phase of reopening,” said Transport Minister Denise Charles.



Charles added that only the driver will be allowed to pick-up and drop off passengers.



Likewise, facilities at the port for passengers will be restricted to workers, authorized personnel, travellers and accompanying persons in situations such as persons with disabilities, reduced mobility or unaccompanied minors.



“Airlines will be encouraged to introduce electronic boarding passes in advance from home and hotel to reduce the number of person-to-person interaction where possible,” Charles stated.



The Ferry Terminal is expected to reopen on August 7th, the date when Dominica’s borders will reopen to foreign nationals.







Dominica Travel Protocols



The Ministry of Health, Wellness, and New Health Investment issues relevant protocols for safe entry into the country.











In other news:



Puerto Rico’s COVID-19 cases increases, openings postponed