The Dominican Republic on lockdown for 45 days				




The Dominican Republic has declared a state of emergency in the national territory for 45 days from today Monday, July 20, date of Executive order 265-20.



President Danilo Medina made the announcement, citing that the lockdown is necessary due to the continuous increase of COVID-19 cases in the country.



Dominican Republic reported a total of 53,956 COVID-19 cases on Sunday, with 1,101 new cases in the last 24 hours. The country’s death toll has now reached 993. 







Curfew Hours in Dominican Republic



The presidential provision indicates two types of curfew enforcement hours in the country.



Curfew will be imposed from Monday to Friday from 7:00 pm to 5:00 am and on Saturdays and Sundays from 5:00 pm to 5:00 am in the following areas:



Santo DomingoNational District Santiago San CristóbalLa Vega Puerto PlataDuarteSan Pedro de Macorís La Romana San Juan de la Maguana La Altagracia AzuaMonsignor Nouel Sánchez Ramírez María Trinidad Sánchez.



On the other hand, curfew will begin every day of the week from 8:00 at night until 5:00 in the morning in the provinces where the virus does not have a high incidence namely:



EspaillatPeraviaBarahona Monte Plata Valverde Hermanas Mirabal Monte CristiSamaná Bahoruco Hato Mayor El Seibo Dajabón Santiago RodríguezSan José de Ocoa Elías Piña IndependencePedernales



“The curfew will take effect from this Tuesday, July 21 of the current year for a period of twenty (20) days, at the end of which the measure will be reviewed based on the epidemiological evolution of COVID-19 in the country “



The presidential provision ratifies the mandatory use of a mask in public places and in private places for public use as an essential measure to control the spread of COVID-19, whose non-compliance will be sanctioned with the provisions established by the General Health Law no. 42-01.







DR hotel zone beaches to remain open



On Sunday, the country’s civil defense announced the closure of beaches across the country in order to enable social distancing.



However, the Civil Defense explained that the beaches of the hotel zones of the main tourist destinations in the country remain open.



The agency announced a list of 227 points in rivers, lakes, springs and popular-use beaches near urban areas that were closed, but clarified that the decision does not apply to beaches in the country’s tourist areas.



This measure seeks to maintain physical distance due to the increase in COVID-19 cases in the country.



“For your safety and that of yours. You will soon be able to enjoy them, but for now, be cautious, ”says the notice.



The closed beaches and river bahts are located in Santo Domingo, Boca Chica, Guerra, Pedro Brand, Monte Plata, Bayaguana, Sabana Grande de Boyá, Yamasá, Santiago, Puerto Plata, Mao, Gaspar Hernández, Santiago Rodríguez, Montecristi, Villa Vásquez, San Pedro de Macorís, Juan Dolio and Hato Mayor.



In addition, La Romana, El Seibo, La Altagracia, Duarte, Nagua, Samaná, Jarabacoa, La Vega, Monseñor Nouel, Cotuí, Sánchez Ramírez, Peravia, San Cristóbal, San José de Ocoa, Barahona, Azua, Las Matas de Farfán, San Juan and Elías Piñas.



The US Embassy in the Dominican Republic has issued a Global Level 4 Health Advisory advising citizens to avoid all international travel due to the global impact of COVID-19.







In Other News:



Grenada to reduce airline tickets taxes