Twins born in the UK to be deported to two Caribbean countries				




Their parents nor caregivers did not apply for the twins’ citizenship



Once they get out of prison for separate sentences of “grievous bodily harm,” London-born twins Darrell and Darren Roberts could end up getting deported to two Caribbean countries that they have never previously visited.



In a BBC report, the 24-year-old twins had been issued with deportation notifications, and once their have served their jail time, they will be flown straight to Dominica and Grenada, the countries where their parents were citizens.



This is according to the siblings of the twins. The Home Office denied this information.



“The Home Office considers carefully all cases where an offender is suspected of being potentially liable for deportation and it has a particular responsibility where the offending is prolific or high harm,” a spokesman said. “Neither Darrell or Darren Roberts are currently detained under immigration powers nor are they subject to deportation orders.”



The Home Office automatically issues a deportation notice to non-citizens convicted of a reasonably serious offence with a sentence of more than 12 months.



But the BBC has seen a notice sent to one of the men that indicates the Home Office does intend to pursue deportation.



Neither parents obtained a UK citizenship. As per UK law, children born in the country to foreign parents can be eligible for British citizenship but cannot be automatically citizens.



Meanwhile, Darrell’s lawyer said his client was British and had served his six-year prison sentence for grievous bodily harm at the age of 17.



Darrell’s lawyer believes sending the his client to Dominica was an error because his father was born on the island of Dominica.



His twin Darren, meanwhile, will be deported to Grenada (his mother’s birthplace) after he has finished his own sentence for grievous bodily harm.



Ealing Council’s social services took cake of the twins when they were 13, following the death of their mother and their father returning to Dominica.