Jamaica extends battle with COVID-19				




The government of Jamaica extends the islandwide 12-hour curfew for another week to curb the increase in COVID-19 cases.



In a virtual press briefing, Prime Minister Andrew Holness announced that the curfew will be extended for another week.



“The national curfew has been extended, commencing at 6:00pm on Wednesday, May 6, 2020 and ending at 6:00am on Wednesday, May 13, 2020.”



The nightly curfew first took effect on April 1.



Holness added that generally, the curfew hours have worked very well, despite the impact on the quick-service industry.



“The measures implemented have been very effective in controlling the spread of the COVID-19 virus. Generally, the curfew measures, by virtue of limiting movement, would have significantly curtailed the spread of the virus, but without doubt, they would have an impact on the restaurant and quick-service industry. We are therefore contemplating adjusting the orders based on advice from the relevant authorities, and in the public’s interest.”







Other safety measures extended



Holness said that other enforcement measures under the Disaster Risk Management Act, which expire on May 6 will be extended to May 31. These include the following:



the duty of employers to provide transportation for exempted workers for curfew hours;people 70 years and over to remain at home;gatherings in public places must not exceed 10 people at a time;maintaining of physical distancing of six feet during any gathering;the mandatory wearing of masks in a public place;closure of bars and other places of amusement, beaches, rivers;work from home measures;restrictions to barbershops and hair salons; andmeasures regarding business process outsourcing (BPO) companies



The Prime Minister also announced schedule for some sectors.



“Markets, vending centers will be operating from 6:00 am to 4:00 pm Mondays to Saturdays.



Operating hours for public transportation and related restrictions are from 5:00 am to 7:00 pm. Passenger transportation is from 6:00 am to 6:00 pm. Gas stations are open from 6:00 am to 6:00 pm”



Meanwhile, operating hours for businesses are no earlier than 8:00 am and no later than 4:00 pm as stated under the Disaster Risk Management Act.



Holness added that some of these measures may become a “feature of the society”.







COVID-19 cases continue to rise



56 days since the first confirmed case of COVID-19 in the island, Jamaica’s Ministry of Health records 471 cases. 



The Ministry of Health confirmed two new cases.



Minister of Health and Wellness, Dr Christopher Tufton said the demographics of the cases – a 12-year-old boy from St Catherine and a 20-year-old female from Clarendon.



Almost 50% of Jamaica’s confirmed cases (221 out of 471) are related to the Alorica call centre in Portmore, St Catherine. The individuals are primarily from the parishes of St Catherine and Kingston and St Andrew, with ages ranging from 18 to 53 years old.



The Ministry of health said they will continue contact tracing to determine all persons who may have had contact with all the current cases.