Dominica to use IMF fund for Income Support				




Following the approval of IMF for the disbursement of 3 COVID-19 emergency assistance fund, Dominica said the money will be allocated for income support.



In an interview, Dominica Prime Minister Roosevelt Skerrit said that the fund will bring some relief to those greatly affected by COVID-19. Microentrepreneurs will be given assistance as well.



“The idea is to kick in the income support in the month of May… The intention of the government is to use some of these funds to help income support [to] those who have lost their jobs and also to help many small businesses who have been directly impacted by COVID-19.”



Skerrit, who is also the Minister of Finance, said that the rest of the money will be used to assist economic investments and activities, explaining it will create more long term benefits for Dominica.



He added that the money from IMF was received with no conditions and is in deep gratitude for the funding.



“We have been for the last several months in the process of mobilizing resources. We’ve been doing so on a bilateral basis and we have also been doing so from a regional standpoint both at CARICOM level and at an OECS sub-region level.”



The $14-million USD, or $38 million ECD granted is 89.4% of Dominica’s total quota.



The prime minister said that the government will provide more details to the public on how things will operate.







Construction of healthcare facilities in Dominica



Meanwhile, construction of healthcare facilities in Dominica continues despite the threat of COVID-19.



After Hurricane Maria wreak havoc the nature island in 2017, Prime Minister Roosevelt Skerrit embarked on the goal of becoming the first climate-resilient nation in the world.



Apart from the thousands of free climate-resilient homes, the government is now moving towards achieving world class healthcare.



“We have about eight health centres being built. These facilities are important, we are just about a month away from the hurricane season,” said Skerrit.



To date, there are nine ongoing healthcare projects, one of which is the long-awaited Marigot Hospital.



Last Wednesday, Skerrit, government officials, visited the construction site to witness the pouring of concrete on the foundation.



“This massive structure will provide a number of services. Today they are doing a massive pour, about 30,000 square feet of floor space. We have agreed for this construction to take place during this period because health is a major priority for the government,” explained the prime minister.



Like other build back better initiatives, the new Marigot Hospital is being funded by the country’s 4-decade-old Citizenship by Investment Programme. It is being developed by Montreal Management Consultants Est. (MMCE) with Rayneau Construction as contractor.



Set to be operational in 12 months-time, the Marigot hospital will be of service to nine major communities in the health district.








Here's a recap of my visit to the construction site of the new Marigot hospital yesterday. I am satisfied that all is being done to complete the main structure of this facility by the end of July this year, and pave the way for the finishing touches to commence.#DynamicDominicaPosted by Roosevelt Skerrit on Thursday, April 30, 2020