Turks and Caicos to ease lockdown				




The government of Turks and Caicos will ease the current lockdown measures and will implement a “phased reopening” from 4 May.



A few government services, retail businesses and beaches will be allowed to open with restrictions.



While all international, island-to-island travel, educational institutions will remain closed until 1 June and the cruise port close until the end of June.



Premier Sharlene Cartwright Robinson made the announcement in an address to the nation on Thursday evening.



“Following a 2 – day meeting ending yesterday after an 11hr session, the cabinet has agreed to a phased reopening of the country beginning 4th May.”



The lockdown imposed on 27 March 27 to 14 April was extended to 4 May.



She explained that people must still strictly follow physical distancing protocols such as wearing of mask or face covering and no public gathering of over four people.



“We may have successfully mitigated Covid-19, but we have not avoided it, and we have not removed the threat of the virus to our population” said Cartwright Robinson



The premier added that residents over 65 years old and those with underlying health conditions to remain isolated.



Restriction on visitation continues until 1 June for the following:



any place of quarantine or isolation station;a patient in a hospital or facility, except a responsible adult in the case of a child;residential care establishment;a detainee in a detention centre(s), prisons or police cells, (only allowed by video, audio, or phone for attorneys)



Meanwhile, the current nighttime curfew of 8:00 PM to 5:00 AM will remain in effect until 25 May.



The whole Turks and Caicos Island will continue to be on full lockdown every Sunday. 











COVID-19 in Turks and Caicos



As of Saturday, 2nd May 2020, confirmed positive cases of COVID-19 in Turks and Caicos continue to remain at twelve (12).



Of that figure, there are four (4) current active cases, six (6) cases recoveries, one (1) case that left the country and one (1) death.



The number of suspected cases decreased to two (2).



Premier Cartwright Robinson thank every citizen for their cooperation that resulted to changes in the COVID-19 situation on the island.



“During this time of the national lockdown, much has been achieved by the broad compliance of the general population with the guidance which has been issued by the Government. I am very proud of everyone for heeding the advice given, especially as it relates to the shelter in place order and curfew.”



In closing, the premier assures everyone that the government is ready to act and react decisively.







Full transcript of Premier Sharlene Cartwright Robinson remarks here