Sint Maarten commemorates 1st decade of Country Status				




Sint Maarten Prime Mnister Jacobs led the virtual commemoration of the country’s 1st decade of attaining country status Kingdom of the Netherlands with theme “Decadal Growth and Progress”.



“Sint Maarten has experienced highs, lows, growth, and disappointments, but through it all, we continue to strive for progress – not just in terms of numbers but in growing a more diverse economy, finalizing the amendments of necessary legislation and policy which will secure the viability and sustainable development of our people and our country,” said Jacobs.



The Prime Minister added that the government pledged to promote stability, integrity, and transparency as well as collaboration and cooperation to fulfill the National Development Vision amid this pandemic.



Jacobs emphasized that the government’s current priority is to educate the public to achieve self-governance and sustainable development and growth.



She then outlined the goals of the government for the next decade which include:



ensuring proper educationsocial safety nets for the vulnerableaccessibility to proper housingimproved public healthcareupgrading of afterschool programs. improve upward mobility for people in business and quality of life diversifying the economyensuring proper financial managementphysical and technological infrastructurepublic protection, and national security



“On this day, as we commemorate and celebrate ten years as a nation, I urge the people of St. Maarten to focus on the future and join in the process of building a strong and resilient nation for present and future generations,” concluded Prime Minister Jacobs.



Sint Maarten’s autonomous status has led the country in becoming an equal partner with Aruba, Curaçao, and the Netherlands including public entities Bonaire, St Eustatius and Saba, within the Kingdom of the Netherlands. 



The Government has also virtually unveiled a plaque placed in commemoration of the occasion and in dedication to the people of St. Maarten. 



Sint Maarten’s creative community showcased their talents in the areas of poetry, music, dance, choir performances, spoken word, and song reflecting on the 10-10-10 past, present, and future.









Sint Maarten Constitution Day
National addresses by his excellency drs.Governor E. Holiday, Hon. President of Parliament R. Brison, Hon. Prime Minister S. Jacobs.Reflection interviews of key persons who  contributed to Sint Maarten achieving its Country Status & Cultural performances by Sint Maarten creative community.Rebroadcast today at 4pm & 9pm on Cable TV 115
Posted by Government of Sint Maarten on Monday, October 12, 2020