Cayman Islands entices digital nomads to live in paradise with unique tourism program				




Work-from-home professionals can make the Caribbean country their home for two years



Cayman Islands is offering a unique deal to professionals working remotely—and are outside of the country—to relocate in the Caribbean nation and make it their home for two years.



This is made possible via the  Global Citizen Concierge Program (GCCP), a tourism initiative recently launched by the Cayman Islands Department of Tourism to attract international citizens to flock the island and stay for a considerable amount of time.



The coronavirus pandemic dealt a huge blow on every country’s tourism industry; Cayman Islands is hoping that this one-of-a-kind initiative would fill in the gap.



The 65,000-strong island group has recorded 235 cases of COVID-19 since January with one death, according to data from the World Health Organisation.



“Now more than ever, businesses are embracing the flexibility of digital existence, with many employees seeking a change of scenery and lifestyle,” said Hon. Deputy Premier and Minister of Tourism, Moses Kirkconnell. “Remote workers can now spend up to two years living and working in the Cayman Islands – reinvigorating their nine-to-five schedules with Caymankindness and elevating their work-life balance with sun, sand, sea and safety in Cayman.”



So how does this work?



For starters, interested applicants must meet a number of requirements, which can be found here. Some of the important documents documents needed are proof of employment a salary certficate that verifies ones annual income of not less than US$100,000 for single households, US$150,000 for two person households, and US$180,000 for households with dependent(s). 



The GCCP will serve as the applicant’s point of contact who will coordinate with Travel Cayman to process the travel authorization. It will also arrange the flight details and accommodation of the applicant. 



Applicants must come to Cayman Islands within 12 months of the the approval date. The professionals who will be awarded the certificates can come and go as in the island as they please. The only requirement is that one must stay in Cayman for a total of 90 days per each 12 month period. All quarantine regulations in place at the time of travel must be followed.



Two persons can acquire a Global Citizen Concierge Certificate Fee of US$1,469 per annum, while dependents will be charged an additional US$500 per head. A Credit Card Processing Fee, which will be 7% of total application fee, will also be paid along with the issuance of the certificates.