Dominica records seven new COVID-19 cases with intensified contact tracing				




Five of the new COVID-19 patients are from the same community



The Commonwealth of Dominica’s Ministry of Health reported seven new positive cases of COVID-19; five of them are from one community.



In a recent press briefing, national epidemiologist Dr. Shalauddin Ahmed said that the cases are from three different communities in Dominica, and were identified during the intensive contact tracing and community drive.



“We have initiated another community screening drive; in this phase, we have successfully completed three communities in three different health districts,” added Dr Shalauddin.



Out of the 45 individuals tested using the PCR method, or the swab testing, one turned out to be positive. This case apparently was in contact with a COVID-19 patient that is now in isolation.



A total of 16 persons underwent the serological testing. None of them tested positive.



Upon a rigorous process of contact tracing, another 112 contacts were identified, and 69 of them were tested. Four of them turned out to be positive for the coronavirus. The rest of the test results are yet to be released.



Dr. Ahmed classified the cases in Dominica as “clustered.” It is not clear what test method was administered to the seventh case, or which communities received a specific test method.



Community health screenings will continue in other districts, Dr. Ahmed said, and residents are reminded to support the health authorities in making the drive successful. He also urged people to follow all the health protocols during the celebrations of Dominica’s independence day.



There are currently nine active cases in Dominica, as per Dr. Ahmed.



Since March 24, when Dominica recorded its first two cases of the novel coronavirus infections, there have been 42 confirmed cases and no deaths.



Around the world, there are over 44 million confirmed cases since the World Health Organisation declared the outbreak as a pandemic in March. Over one million have died due to COVID-19.



You can watch the recent press briefing here: