New rapid diagnostic tests slated to strengthen COVID-19 response—PAHO				




Study for the new diagnostic tests conducted in four countries



The Pan American Health Organization (PAHO) has recently announced that a new type of antigen diagnostic test could be the key to a more accurate and faster testing of the highly contagious COVID-19 disease.



The rapid antigen test, which was recently approved by the World Health Organisation (WHO), can be performed anywhere—even in remote communities, PAHO Director Carissa F Etienne said in a press briefing.



The rapid antibody tests currently in use by healthcare workers today can detect who has been previously been infected with COVID-19, but these tests often give a negative result when administered during the early stages of infection.



On the other hand, the PCR diagnostic tests, which are highly accurate and must be conducted in lab settings, are often beset with problems of delays with the results and in turn promote a higher risk of the spread of infection.



But the new rapid, antigen tests are much more accurate in determining if someone is currently infected. These tests are more affordable and easy to derive results from, too, which make them more accessible to poorer nations and hard to reach areas without easy access to a laboratory.



“By providing results quickly, the new test empowers frontline health workers to better manage cases by isolating patients to prevent further spread and to begin treatment immediately,” Etienne explained. “If distributed widely, this new test will transform our COVID response.” 



At present, a pilot study of the new antigen diagnostic test is running in four countries of the Americas: Ecuador, El Salvador, Mexico and Suriname.



“With support from WHO, we will be providing these diagnostic tests free of cost as we keep a close eye on how they’re used. The data collected via this study will help countries within and outside of our region make the most of these new diagnostics,” Etienne said.



As of this writing, WHO has already recorded 38,202,956 confirmed cases of COVID-19 globally, including 1,087,069 deaths.



The Caribbean is seeing a high number of cases, and in many countries, the pandemic has already infected even the less populated areas, Etienne noted.