UN Sec-Gen nods at the Caribbean’s role in tackling COVID-19 and climate change				




Tropical region’s collective voice is “vital”



The UN chief recognized the Caribbean region’s initiative and diligence in dealing with the coronavirus pandemic, while remaining committed to the region’s collective answer to development goals in addressing climate change.



According to UN News, Secretary-General António Guterres praised countries in the Caribbean for their “leadership during the crisis, even as they confront shocks to their economies, tourism sector, trade and remittances.”



“Your unique voice is vital as we tackle shared threats such as climate change, citizen insecurity and the COVID-19 pandemic that expose deep and systemic inequalities,” Guterres said in a recent virtual meeting of the Caribbean Community (CARICOM) where he delivered his address.



Recognizing the importance of the Caribbean’s experience during the pandemic, Guterres called for a relief package “equivalent to at least 10 per cent of the global economy,” as well as an appeal for debt relief.



As for the sustainable development measures, the UN Secretary-General shared that the UN system is ramping up support for the Caribbean and all small island developing states.



“We are putting our best capacities and resources to support your voice and participation in global governance processes, to provide sound policy advice and help broker the partnerships that will facilitate your continued progress towards the Sustainable Development Goals,” he said.



Status of COVID-19 in the Caribbean



According to CARICOM statistics, there are still 11,127 individuals in the region who are still infected with the virus and are recuperating as of writing.



Jamaica has the the most number of active cases, with 4,175. It is followed by Bahamas with 2,207, Haiti with 1,393, and Trinidad and Tobago with 1,241 cases.



A total of 1,035 deaths has also been recorded since the pandemic reached the shores of the islands.



Haiti lost 232 residents due to COVID-19—the most number among the member countries of CARICOM.



And just recently, the youngest patient in Trinidad and Tobago succumbed to the disease. She was an 18-year-old female who had diabetes.