Belize receives essential health items from the United Nations				




PAHO Press Release – The United Nations through the COVID-19 Response and Recovery Multi-Partner Trust Fund handed over 30,000 sets of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), 150 test kits, and various essential health commodities to the Ministry of Health (MOH) to support the Government of Belize to curb the spread of COVID-19. 



The total value of equipment and supplies is estimated at USD $118,000.00. The United Nations Resident Coordinator Office (UNRCO), the Pan American Health Organization/World Health Organization (PAHO/WHO), and the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) handed over the items to the Director of Health Services, Dr. Marvin Manzanero; Principal Public Health Inspector, John Bodden; and HECOPAB Technical Advisor, Kathleen Azueta-Cho, on behalf of the Ministry of Health.



“Our priority is to support the government in controlling the spread of COVID-19 and ensuring that we reach the most marginalized and vulnerable populations,” stated Birgit Gerstenberg, United Nations Resident Coordinator, Belize. “The United Nations County Team is committed to working towards strengthening the health system in Belize, and better equip health workers with lifesaving equipment and support.”The UN COVID-19 Response and Recovery Multi-Partner Trust Fund is a UN inter-agency finance mechanism launched by the United Nations Secretary-General to support low-and middle-income programme countries in overcoming the health and development crisis caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. The Fund’s assistance targets those most vulnerable to economic hardship and social disruption.“This donation of items is timely as we continue to face different stages and elements in the pandemic for the Belize context, the items received are to be used by the different sectors of the National COVID-19 Response, the laboratory, the community health workers and hospital staff. We thank the UN country offices for their ongoing support to our national response,” stated Dr Marvin Manzanero, Director of Health Services.The UN COVID-19 MPTF has multiple links to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) adopted by United Nations Member States in 2015. It will directly support SDG 3 to ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages. It will also support SDG 1 to end poverty, SDG 2 to end hunger, SDG 4 to ensure quality education, SDG 5 to achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls, SDG 8 to promote economic growth, SDG 9 to build resilient infrastructure and foster innovation as well as several others.